Open Source Guide and Recommendation Site


Objective:

Realize revenue by receiving commissions when site visitors click through from our site to a company that supports an open source system we are presenting/reviewing.

Background: 

There are many Enterprise-capable open source projects which are the equivalent of commercial  Enterprise software.

Adoption of these open source solutions has often been hindered because of the responsibility of installing and configuring them. 
 Although there is a growing number of people with these abilities, many enterprises hesitate to commit to open source for fear of inability to hire, or later to retain, employees with open source skills.

Many enterprise-capable open source projects are now supported by some company that offers paid support and continued responsibility.

There are generally several competing open source solutions for any given software requirement, and even open source experts will tend to recommend that with which they are already familiar.

Proposal:

Create and maintain an ongoing open-source comparison and review site. 
 This would contain articles about several competing products in various solutions categories, along with practical recommendations about which solution is optimal for a particular enterprise’s set of  requirements.

Income will be generated by setting up agreements with companies offering paid installation, setup and maintenance for the various products.
When a visitor to our site clicks through using a provided (programmed) button, we are paid a commission or finder’s fee if the product is purchased.  We may perhaps be able to negotiate a (smaller) fee on click-through alone.

We would provide Amazon-style (moderated) user reviews, and later add social media sentiment analysis for each product.

Requirements:

Creating and maintaining the site.  We have AWS capabilities.
Writing the reviews, including step-by-step commentary on installation and setup.
Providing the customer review capability. Monitoring the reviews for obscenity and/or irrelevance. Automated notification when there is a new review.
Providing social media sentiment analysis programming and result reporting (automatically updated monthly).
Reporting (to us) click-through performance by solution.
Negotiating commission/finder’s fee contract with various software providers. Note that only such “partners” will have a click-through button on the site.
Usual (automated) security monitoring of the site.
“Employees” willing to do work on spec.
Automated notification about new (or improved) open source products in covered categories.

Costs:

More research is needed, but initial estimates are that a small static Amazon site will be all that is required.

Projected Revenue:

Phase one - Initially covering  AWS expenses, everything else is profit. 
Phase two potential:   If site get enough visits - sell advertising, otherwise we investigate partnerships with providers for consulting services, referral fees, and/or software development.
	
Competition:

To my knowledge, this will be the first such site (validate??).
 Various online publications periodically undertake open source reviews and comparisons, but these are less detailed than I have planned, generally discuss only one software category, and also are ephemeral.

the end





